# BECMER: A Fusion Model Using BERT and CNN for Music Emotion Recognition

#### Music emotion analysis has been an ever-growing field of research in music information retrieval. To solve the problem of cold start of content-based recommendation system, we need a method to automatically label music. Due to recent advances, neural networks can be used to extract audio features for a wide variety of tasks. When humans listen to a song, it is the music or the lyrics that touch the heart the most. Therefore, this study will try to predict the type of music emotion based on the audio signal and the lyrics information. For model building, convolutional neural networks (CNNs) will be used on the audio signals and natural language processing (NLP) on the lyrics. This study purpose a new dataset names ABP it combination of three datasets from Western pop-music are adopted which contain valence and arousal values judged by humans. The type of music emotion will be categorized based on the four quadrants formed by the valence and arousal axes. It is confirmed in the experiment that use of audio and lyrics information to classify the emotions of songs has a better classification performance than use of the audio-only learning methods in previous studies. Compare with other study the BECMER model improved the accuracy by 8~16%. 

## Datasets
* 4Q audio emotion dataset (Russell's model) (2018) http://mir.dei.uc.pt/downloads.html
* Bi-modal (audio and lyrics) emotion dataset (Russell's model) (2016) http://mir.dei.uc.pt/downloads.html
* PMEmo: A Dataset For Music Emotion Computing https://github.com/HuiZhangDB/PMEmo
